Data:
It is defined as a collection of facts, figures, words, values, and other details that are collected and organized to
support a particular decision or action. Data can be in the form of numbers, text, images, audio, video, etc.

Program:
A program is a set of instructions that are written in a programming language and can be executed by a computer. 
It is a sequence of instructions that tell the computer what to do.

Types of data:
data item: a single piece of information, such as a name, address, or phone number.
data group: a collection of related data items, such as a list of names and addresses.

Data Structure: Data organized in a particular structure
A data structure is a specialized format for organizing, managing, and storing data in a way that enables 
efficient access and modification. It provides a systematic way of solving problems and optimizing algorithms 
by using well-organized data.

Developing of software:
--> purpose/problem statement 
--> Solution
--> Algorithm
--> Pseudocode
--> Program/Source code (executable code)
--> Documentation
--> Testing
--> Deployment
--> Maintenance
--> Evaluation
--> Feedback
--> Improvement

Difference between data structure and database
Data structure is a way to organize data and store in RAM(temporray storage) in a computer so that it can be 
efficiently accessed and modified while, Database is a collection of data that is stored in memory in a way 
that it can be easily accessed, managed, and updated.

Algorithm:
An algorithm is a well-defined procedure that takes some input and produces a corresponding output. It is a
step-by-step procedure for solving a problem or performing a computation. Algorithms are used to solve problems
efficiently and effectively.
It is usually written in plain, natural language or represented graphically using flowcharts.

Characteristics:
-input
-output
-Definitness
-Effectiveness
-Finitness

Pseudocode:
Pseudocode is a simplified, informal, and language-agnostic way of writing an algorithm. It resembles a mix of natural language and programming syntax to bridge the gap between an algorithm and actual code.

DSA operates data and organized it.

Difference between software and Program
Software is a collection of programs,documentation and Data that are used to perform a specific task or set 
of tasks. A program is a set of instructions that a computer can execute to perform a specific task.

Software is the code that operates on Data.

Flowchart:
Algorithm is represented graphically using flowcharts. It is a diagram that shows the steps of an algorithm in
a visual way. It is used to represent the flow of control in a program.

The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) set standards for flowcharts and their symbols

Limitations of flowchart:
-Not suitable for OOP
-Not suitable for complex problems
-Not suitable for stakeholders
-Not suitable for explaining events
-Not suitable for sofware modelling

UML:
Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a standardized modeling language used to visualize, specify, construct, and document the artifacts of a software system. It is used to create diagrams and models that represent the different aspects of a system, such as its structure, behavior, and interactions. UML is widely used in software development, particularly in object-oriented programming, to help developers understand and communicate their designs.

Importance of DSA
To build an efficient progratn
To increase Progratn Execution Speed
To Reusability of Data
To irnprose Abstraction of Progranl
To Solve real world problems

Types of Data structures: (on basis of data types)
Primitive data structure: (int,pointer,float, char, boolean, complex in python, none, null)
non-primitve data structure: (array, linked list, stack, queue, tree, graph, map/associated array/hash table/dictionary in python, multimap,bag, file, set, tuple,list)
Types of Data structures: (on basis of storage)
Linear data structure: (array, linked list, stack, queue)
Non-linear data structure: (tree, graph)

*nonlinear data structure will be preffered on linear bcz it is memory efficient

Types of Data structures: (on basis of access)
Sequential access: (array, linked list)
Random access: (stack, queue, tree, graph)

Types of Data structures: (on basis of implementation)
Static data structure: (array, stack, queue)
Dynamic data structure: (linked list, tree, graph)

Types of Data structures: (on basis of operation)
Homogeneous data structure: (array, stack, queue)
Heterogeneous data structure: (linked list, tree, graph)

Memory by primitve data structures:
int: 4 bytes
float: 4 bytes
char: 1 byte
boolean: 1 byte
pointer: 4 bytes
complex: 8 bytes
none: 0 bytes
null: 0 bytes

Memory by non-primitve data structures:
array: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
linked list: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
stack: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
queue: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
tree: depends on the number of nodes and the data type of the elements
graph: depends on the number of nodes and the data type of the elements
map/associated array/hash table/dictionary: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
multimap: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
bag: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
file: depends on the size of the file
set: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
tuple: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements
list: depends on the number of elements and the data type of the elements

Relation between data structures and programming languages:
Operations on Data Structure:
-Searching
-Traversing
-sorting
-Merging
-Inserting
-Updating
-Deleting
